US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has arrived in Saudi Arabia as part of a
new push to broker a ceasefire deal
between Israel and Hamas he set to meet
with leaders of Gulf Arab states who've
been mediating a plan for a truce and
the return of hostages held in Gaza
since the Hamas LED terror attack on the
7th of October at the same time a Hamas
delegation is expected to meet Egyptian
officials in Cairo for talks also aimed
at securing an
agreement the negotiations are taking
place as the threat of a ground Invasion
continues to loom over Rafa where over
half of gaza's population is
Sheltering the city of Rafa has been the
last refuge for families fleeing the
fighting in
Gaza previously deemed a safe Zone by
Israel many here still struggle to get
[Music]
by we had 10 people living in the same
tent and we suffer from from the Heat
and mosquitoes we do everything inside
the tent cooking cleaning bathing the
children I have sick children who cannot
tolerate the Heat and we're cramped
inside the tent rarely going
outside Israel says Rua is a stronghold
for Hamas militants and plans to launch
a ground Invasion everyone to speaking
in Saudi Arabia the Palestinian
president urged against it of the palan
people we appeal to the United States of
America to ask Israel to stop the Rafa
operation because America is the only
country capable of preventing Israel
from committing this
[Music]
crime us has previously said it could
not support a rougher operation without
a credible humanitarian
plan Israel says it is scaling up Aid
deliveries into Gaza with plans for a
new ocean delivery Corridor together
with the United States Central Command
we are working on a temporary Maritime
Pier known as jots which stands for
joint Logistics over the
shore Aid deliveries via air continue to
bring some desperately needed supplies
but humanitarian groups warn it's not
enough with Hunger widespread and a
looming risk of famine for many in Gaza
for more I'm now joined by DW
correspondent Rebecca ritters who is in
Jerusalem Rebecca good morning US
Secretary of State Anthony blink is in
Saudi Arabia today what are we expecting
from
him well this is Anthony blinken's
seventh visit to the Middle East and
he's fifth to Saudi Arabia beish since
October 7 since the War Began uh he'll
be bringing with him a very similar
message as he has done in previous
visits of course the ceasefire talks and
this poten Cal hostage deal definitely
topping the agenda and coming at a very
key time when we're are seeing this
crucial phase of the hostage
negotiations but he'll also be there to
talk to other Gulf and Arab leaders from
Qatar UAE Egypt um and and of course
Saudi Arabia to discuss a post-war Gaza
that's something that is very much in
the minds of us officials and of course
every time he visit Saudi Arabia he'll
also be bringing with him uh on the
agenda a willingness or a potential to
talk about the ongoing conversation
about um Israeli Saudi normalization now
that is something that the US see as a
potential uh Way Way Forward in this
post Gaza era and it's something that's
been high on the agenda for the US
Administration for uh President Biden's
us Administration since he took office
before October 7 those talks were
already making some Headway uh and they
are still in the pipeline though the
sticking point being Israel's refusal uh
to um talk about any future Palestinian
state so it's a very very big agenda
that Anthony blinkin brings with him as
always from Saudi Arabia then he'll be
following on to Jordan and here to
Israel as well so lots on the on the
plate for Anthony blink there meanwhile
ceasefire talks are happening in Egypt
as well with a Hamas delegation
present yeah we're getting to a point
where we're seeing some very positive
Moves In This hostage negotiation
certainly the closest we've come in
certainly several weeks if not months
since you know we've been these
negotiations have been ongoing and
largely stalling uh since the last
negotiation was successful back in
November now last week Egyptian
officials were in Israel to discuss with
negotiators here about what they uh
would potentially agree to they have
sent back with them to Egypt with those
officials a counter proposal that Hamas
has reportedly been mulling over uh now
it is being reported that Hamas
officials are heading to Cairo today and
could be even giving uh their their
answer to whether or not they'll accept
this deal there have been some reports
that Hamas officials certainly in the
polit bureau have been saying that they
see no major issues with this current
deal on the table so that is of course
something very positive but there's
always a bit of a split between hamas's
polit Bureau and the military wing and
of course yayya sinoa the head of Hamas
in Gaza and so whether or not they'll be
able to agree on what's stipulated in
this particular deal of course remains
to be seen is never done until it's done
bar and we've certainly been SE we've
seen it come close many times before so
we'll certainly have more details for
you today as this is happening pressure
is growing from within netanyahu's own
government to invade Rafa come May is
that reflective of a split in the
government and if so what bearing could
it have on what happens
next well there's certainly a difference
of opinion within the the government as
to whether or not uh they should take a
deal and and take this Rafer offensive
off the table we saw remarks from the
Finance Minister betel smrc one of the
most far-right members of Benjamin
netanyahu's cabinet he came out to say
that uh if Rafa was cancelled then this
government would have no legitimacy he's
calling for that operation to take place
despite any further talks whether
there's a hostage deal or not now we
heard from more center right member who
wasn't initially part of the government
the Coalition but he came in after o
October 7 into the war cabinet that's
Benny Gant he's a you know um a very
senior figure in this war cabinet and
he's he said in a statement that
entering raer is important but that the
campaign against the campaign against
Hamas I should say is very important but
that the return of hostages is even more
so he said if a deal is reached with the
backing of the defense establishment but
without ending the war and um then the
the ministers who led this uh LED this
government
on October 7 wouldn't be legitimate if
they didn't agree to that so you do see
a difference of opinion there and
certainly what I think we're seeing is
that most of the government is uh
committed to going into ruer though some
members would like to see a hostage deal
made in the interim we'll leave it there
for the time being DW's Rebecca rers in
Jerusalem thanks so much